please welcome to the stage Alexander
Nicks chief executive officer Cambridge
analytic a
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen honorable
colleagues it's my privilege to speak to
you today about the power of big data
and psychographics in the electoral
process and specifically to talk about
the work that we contributed to Senator
Cruz's presidential primary campaign
it's easy to forget that only 18 months
ago senator Cruz was one of the less
popular candidates seeking nomination
and certainly one of the more vilified
in addition to which he had very low
name recognition only about 40 percent
of the electorate had heard of him as
compared to Jeb Bush shop in the mid 80s
and he was competing in one of the in
one of the most competitive primary
fields ever in Republican politics
additionally he was seeking to make his
voice heard to a largely homogeneous
audience yet come May 2016
senator Cruz was the only serious
contender the only credible threat to
the phenomenon Donald Trump so how did
he do this the Cruz campaign was quick
to embrace three technologies three
methodologies that propelled them to
success the first of these was
behavioral science probably the easiest
way to explain this is for example were
you lucky enough to to own a private
beach and you wanted to stop people from
using it you might put up the sign on
the left here this is largely
informational and seeks to inform
attitudes conversely you could use the
communication on the right this is
behavioral communication and it seeks to
probe and altogether much more powerful
underlying motivation clearly the threat
of being eaten by a shark
might prevent you from swimming in their
sea yet this is complex to do and as a
consequence most communication companies
today still segment segment their
audiences by demographics and
Geographics
but when you pause for just a moment
this is
a really ridiculous idea the idea that
all women should receive the same
message because of their gender or all
African Americans because of their race
or all old people or rich people or
young people to get the same message
because of their demographics just
doesn't make any sense
clearly demographics and Geographics and
economics will influence your worldview
but equally important or probably more
important a psychographics that is an
understanding of your personality
because it's personality that drives
behavior and behavior that obviously
influences how you vote so how is this
possible well at Cambridge we've rolled
out a long-form quantitative instrument
to probe the underlying traits and
inform personality this is the cutting
edge in Experimental Psychology known as
the ocean model ocean being an acronym
for openness how open you are to new
experiences conscientiousness whether
you prefer order and habits and planning
in your life extraversion how social you
are agreeable 'no sweather you put other
people's needs and society and community
ahead of yourself
and finally neuroticism a measurement of
how much you tend to worry by having
hundreds and hundreds of thousands of
Americans undertake this survey we were
able to form a model to predict the
personality of every single adult in the
United States of America so how does
this impact marketing and communications
in elections for a primary the second
amendment might be a popular issue
amongst the electorate if you know that
the personality of the people you're
targeting you can nuance your messaging
to resonate more effectively with those
key audience groups so for a highly
neurotic and conscientious audience
you're going to need a message that is
rational and fair base or emotionally
based in this case the threat of a
burglary and the insurance policy of a
gun is very persuasive conversely for a
crow closed an agreeable audience these
are people who care about tradition and
habit
and family and community this could be
the the grandfather who taught his son
to shoot and the father who will in turn
teach his son obviously talking about
these values is going to be much more
effective in communicating your message
the second leg of the stool data
analytics communication is fundamentally
changing back in the days of Mad Men
communication was essentially top-down
that is its creative lead brilliant
minds get together and come up with
slogans like beans means Heinz and
coca-cola is it and they push these
messages on to the audience in the hope
that they resonate today we don't need
to guess at what creative solution may
or may not work we can use hundreds or
thousands of individual data points on
our target audiences to understand
exactly which messages are going to
appeal to which audiences way before the
creative process starts so what is big
data big data is really the aggregation
of as many individual data points that
you can possibly get your hands on which
are then synthesized in one database of
record cleaned or high genes and then
used to inform and create insight on
your target audience
this could include demographic and
geographic factors age gender ethnicity
religion and so forth or psychographic
or attitudinal factors this is consumer
and lifestyle habits what car you drive
what products you purchase in shops what
magazines you read what golf clubs you
belong to what churches you attend and
of course personality or behavioral data
this is what we talked about earlier how
you see the world what actually drives
you the easiest way to illustrate big
data in action is through a real-life
example this is a data dashboard that we
prepared for the Cruz campaign for the
Iowa caucus it looks intimidating but
it's actually very simple you have a
matrix here on the x-axis partition
partisanship value hardcore Republicans
on the right Democrats on the left and
the y-axis people's likelihood to turn
out to go in caucus the people at the
top highly likely the people at the
bottom not at all so already this
information is quite helpful to a
campaign manager but if we select some
segments within this matrix it becomes
even more powerful in this case we've
zoned in on a group we've called
persuasion these are people who are
definitely going to vote to caucus but
they need moving from the center a
little bit more towards the right in
order to support Cruz they need a
persuasion message and we can look at
this group of about 45,000 people and we
can see that the mean personality is
very low in neuroticism quite low in
openness and slightly conscientious we
can segment further we can look at what
issue they care about gun rights I've
selected that narrows the field slightly
more and now we know that we need a
message on gun rights it needs to be a
persuasion message and it needs to be
nuanced according to the certain
personality that we're interested in and
we can see where these people are on the
map if we wanted to drill down further
we could resolve the data to an
individual level where we have somewhere
close to four or five thousand data
points on every adult in the United
States
finally addressable ad technology this
is the ability to take all this offline
data and to match it to drive
communications blanket advertising
blanket advertising the idea that a
hundred million people receive the same
piece of Direct Mail the same television
advert the same digital advert is dead
my children will certainly never ever
understand this concept of mass
communication today communication is
becoming ever increasingly targeted it's
being individualized for every single
person in this room so you will no
longer be receiving adverts on products
and services that you don't care about
rather you'll only receive adverts that
not only are on the the products and
services or in the case of elections
issues that you care about most but that
have been nuanced in order to reflect
the way you see the world
we're able to match offline data to
cookies to drive digital advertising
social media banners and the like we can
obviously use this data to inform Direct
Mail purchases so a husband and a
household can receive a piece of mail
but his wife can receive a different
piece of mail possibly even on the same
issue most exciting of all probably is
the fact that we can take this data and
match it to set-top box viewing data
that's television or cable data every
time you watch TV the programs that
you're watching are being recorded and
that information is being sent back to
your cable provider and we can match
what you watch in a way that we can
begin to select programs to advertise in
that have the highest density of the
target audience that we're trying to
reach this not only dramatically reduces
the cost of your advertising but of
course improves the return on investment
so what were the results well Ted Cruz
employed our data our behavioral
insights to drive not just his TV and is
digital but his field operations his
get-out-the-vote his voter persuasion
his donation fundraising efforts and his
resource allocation and all of this
meant that he started from a base of
less than 5% and had a very slow and
steady but firm rise to above 35% making
him obviously the second most
threatening contender in the race now
clearly the Cruz campaign is over now
but what I can tell you is that of the
two candidates left left in this
election one of them is using these
technologies and it's going to be very
interesting to see how they impact the
next seven weeks thank you
[Applause]